it was just over a month ago that 23
year old actor River Phoenix stumbled
out of this trendy sunset nightclub
known as the Viper Room and died of a
massive drug overdose paramedics found
him on the sidewalk he didn't have a
harvey he didn't have a pulse ever since
his debut as a child star in the movie
stand by me River Phoenix has carved out
a place for his talents playing the
young Indiana Jones a troubled teen in
my own private Idaho and a computer whiz
kid in sneakers very few in Hollywood
had risen this far this fast
besides the clean-cut Hollywood image
River Phoenix had a different side a
side that was tormented by inner demons
which eventually drove him to
self-destruct I knew a part of him that
no one else really knew and that was the
part of him that that used drugs meet
Rick Riojas a musician and former heroin
addict Riojas claims he met River
Phoenix in a studio jam session along
with being an actor Phoenix was also a
guitarist for a band called Ella cos
addict I think he used heroin when he
played I think he was more relaxed and
more calm playing when he was when he
was high although Riojas has no proof or
witnesses
he claims River approached him to buy
drugs he would ask you for drugs yeah he
would ask heroin I couldn't see why he
didn't go anywhere else but but he
basically he would come over with money
yeah and he wanted you to supply him
with drugs and that that was basically
it
Riojas then went on to tell us that the
first time he did heroin with River the
young actor
just didn't seem to know what he was
doing well he didn't know how to hit
himself so to speak you know what do you
mean by hit
you know inject himself with the needle
and stuff he showed him how to eject the
heroin into his arms and yeah he wanted
to know so did he yeah in front of you
shut up with the heroin yeah quite a few
times actually and according to Riojas
over a period of three years Phoenix
would become a steady customer and one
night River traveled over 6,000 miles
just to buy drugs
he flew in when he got to my house I
found out that it was from New York he
got it it was just high bye boom boom he
left where you going now I'm going back
to New York and he just took off he was
so unhappy with his life that he
continued with the drug abuse and how it
got so bad that he finally died we'll
call him Tom not his real name but Tom
claims to be a close friend of River and
his family for a number of years tom
says River had a squeaky-clean image as
a vegetarian and a shy private person
well I suppose you can meet with someone
and say hey you know you know we think
the same way we like each other's work
let's do something I guess you know
there's that kind of talk that goes on
but he was a walking contradiction in
terms of his own health
how bad was his drug problem he looked
very bad he looked yellowed his skin was
jaundice his hair was hanging in his
eyes he was slurring his speech tom says
even rivers parents could not stop his
spiral into the world of drugs in an
open letter to the Los Angeles Times
rivers mother heart Phoenix wrote River
was not a regular drug user he was never
part of the club scene in LA his parents
had obviously no influence on his wife
the only strong influence in rivers life
came from his former girlfriend actress
Martha Plimpton claims Tom the couple
starred in running on empty a film that
garnered Phoenix and Oscar nomination at
the age of 21 they were very happy
together
and I think it was the drugs that
started to take effect that changed his
per
personality and that was one of the
reasons that Martha pulled away and the
lure of a bigger high seemed to call out
to River when he asked Rick Riojas if he
could get a mixture of heroin and
cocaine commonly referred to as a
speedball how now I was I don't I don't
I was totally against that that that I
don't know sounds weird like I have
standard or something but and I do it's
a I think it's a really bad high it's
bad trip I try to talk to him about it
Riojas claims that was the last time he
saw Phoenix alive he himself checked
into a drug rehab program and now claims
to be clean but River died six months
later from a drug overdose of a
speedball you were the guide it supplied
him you're partly to blame for what's
happened to him don't you feel guilty at
all partly to blame for what happened to
him River ran his own life he did his
own thing and if it wasn't gonna be me
was gonna be someone else
[Music]
you